source/disclaimer.rst, before:

=====================
A disclaimer of sorts
=====================

The author of Keyboard11 ZNN website and any other legal representation thereof is,
to the furthest degree allowed by applicable laws,
in no way legally responsible for your actions that may result from:

#. applying a piece of advice or thought that was suggested or proven to be correct on this website;
#. applying a piece of advice or thought that was suggested or proven to be wrong on this website;
#. applying a piece of advice or thought that was suggested or proven to exist on this website;
#. applying a piece of advice or thought that could be misconstrued as serious interpretation of the more humorous material on this website;
#. acting out in rage over existence of material existing on this website;
#. acting out in rage over existence of author of this website;
#. acting out in analogy to acts of author of this website that were alluded to on it;
#. acting out in analogy to such acts of other entities;
#. acting out acts that were suggested to be impossible for author of this website, but possible for other entiities;
#. appropriating gimmicks of author of this website;
#. arguing for or against the legality of this website;
#. absorbing inappropriate amounts of hydroxymethane;
#. any combination of the above.

Commit message:

fixed two capital ZNNs, added a personal data information note

source/disclaimer.rst, after:

=====================
A disclaimer of sorts
=====================

The author(s) of Keyboard11 z n. n. website and any other legal representation
thereof is, to the furthest degree allowed by applicable laws,
in no way legally responsible for your actions that may result from:

#. applying a piece of advice or thought that was suggested or proven to be correct on this website;
#. applying a piece of advice or thought that was suggested or proven to be wrong on this website;
#. applying a piece of advice or thought that was suggested or proven to exist on this website;
#. applying a piece of advice or thought that could be misconstrued as serious interpretation of the more humorous material on this website;
#. acting out in rage over existence of material existing on this website;
#. acting out in rage over existence of author of this website;
#. acting out in analogy to acts of author of this website that were alluded to on it;
#. acting out in analogy to such acts of other entities;
#. acting out acts that were suggested to be impossible for author of this website, but possible for other entiities;
#. appropriating gimmicks of author of this website;
#. arguing for or against the legality of this website;
#. absorbing inappropriate amounts of hydroxymethane;
#. any combination of the above.

Keyboard11 z n. n. website does not collect your personal data without further
prompts.
